add draft for use cases page intros (#2278)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/getting-started/use-cases/ai-agent-lifecycle.md

---
id: ai-agent-lifecycle
title: AI Agent Lifecycle
sidebar_label: AI Agent Lifecycle
---

# AI Agent Lifecycle

The promise of Generative AI is vast, but the path to production is full of challenges. Organizations often struggle to bridge the chasm between powerful Large Language Models (LLMs) and their proprietary data, orchestrate intelligent agents, and securely govern the entire lifecycle in production environments. Mia-Platform addresses these complexities by providing a structured approach to build, orchestrate, and govern end-to-end AI-native systems as a core function of the platform. This transforms AI from a theoretical asset into a tangible engine for business value, allowing you to ship intelligent, secure, and seamlessly integrated applications at speed.

## Core Capabilities for AI-Native Systems

Mia-Platform demystifies the adoption of Generative AI by offering a structured approach to architecting, orchestrating, and governing intelligent systems.

### Build Context-Aware RAG Applications

> A primary challenge is making general-purpose LLMs reason with private, proprietary data sources. Mia-Platform enables the development of complex [**Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)**](/runtime_suite_templates/ai-rag-template/10_overview_and_usage) applications. These systems empower LLMs to access and utilize your internal knowledge bases, delivering answers that are not only accurate but also deeply contextualized to your specific business domain. This turns your private data into a powerful competitive differentiator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A primary challenge is making general-purpose LLMs reason with private, proprietary data sources. Mia-Platform enables the development of complex [**Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)**](/runtime_suite_templates/ai-rag-template/10_overview_and_usage) applications. These systems enhance LLMs so that they can access and utilize your internal knowledge bases from both structured and unstructured data sources, returning answers that are not only accurate but also deeply contextualized to your specific business domain and are therefore valuable for you. This turns your private data into a powerful competitive differentiator.
```

### Orchestrate Intelligent Agent & Multi-Agent Systems

Moving beyond single-shot prompts, Mia-Platform enables the design, coordination and monitoring of complex workflows using [**Flow Manager**](/runtime_suite/flow-manager-service/overview) or with custom implementation where multiple AI agents collaborate to execute distributed tasks. This allows for the creation of sophisticated systems that can solve multifaceted business problems by breaking them down into smaller, manageable steps handled by specialized agents.

### Achieve Digital Sovereignty with Self-Hosted LLMs

For organizations that require absolute control over their data and intellectual property, Mia-Platform supports the deployment and management of LLMs within your own private infrastructure. This approach to digital sovereignty ensures that sensitive information never leaves your trusted environment, meeting the strictest security and compliance requirements.

### AI-Powered Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)

> Mia-Platform also integrates AI to enhance the development process itself. The [**AI-Powered SDLC Tool**](/runtime_suite_applications/quality-assistant/10_overview%23ai-powered-sdlc-tool) accelerates development and improves quality by offering AI-driven requirement evaluation, test coverage estimation, and compliance checks against industry standards. Furthermore, the [**AI-Compliance for Data Catalog**](/runtime_suite_applications/data-catalog-ai-compliance/10_overview%23getting-started) empowers even non-technical roles with an AI Assistant to explore and understand data catalog metadata using natural language, simplifying audits and compliance tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mia-Platform also integrates AI to enhance the entire development process. The [**AI-Powered SDLC Tool**](/runtime_suite_applications/quality-assistant/10_overview%23ai-powered-sdlc-tool) accelerates development and improves the quality of assets by offering AI-driven requirement evaluation, test coverage estimation, and compliance checks against industry standards. Furthermore, the [**AI-Compliance for Data Catalog**](/runtime_suite_applications/data-catalog-ai-compliance/10_overview%23getting-started) enables even non-technical roles to explore and understand data catalog metadata by means of natural language interactions with an AI Assistant, ultimately simplifying audits and compliance tasks.
```
